[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> What's the purpose
of our life on Earth?
It's a curriculum that the
soul has created in order
to explore its own
attachments in order
to awaken out of its illusion
of separateness, which
it created as part of its play.
It's not an era.
He didn't fall from grace.
It's not original sin.
It's choice.
I had an interesting discussion
with a Tibetan rascal
named Chogyam Trungpa Rinpoche.
I just met him once.
He called me.
And he said, Ram Dass, we
have to accept responsibility.
I said, what
responsibility, Rinpoche?
I don't have any responsibility.
God has all the responsibility.
Not my but thy will, oh Lord.
He said, you're copping out.
And it bugged me because
I didn't understand it.
What do you mean
I was copping out?
Then he said to me,
you have the choice.
He said you can be the victim
or you can be the creator.
And the victim is
when you identify
with any part of the form
of the manifestation.
your body, your personality,
your thinking mind--
that's all part of
lawful unfolding.
That's all the victim.
Personality, body,
that's all in law.
That's all form.
It's all happening.
It's all karma unfolding.
Even the experience you
think you're free isn't free.
There's a part of
you that has no form.
That part's the creator.
There is a part of
you that is free
that is creating that
could change anything
you want in the universe.
The only funny part
about it is that were
you identify with that
part of your being
so that you were outside
of it and seeing all,
you'd see why had created it
that way in the first place.
It's like in the Bible.
It said, had you but faith,
you could move mountains.
But if you had the
faith, you'd see
why you put the mountain
there in the first place,
so that from the
soul's point of view,
it's on a journey,
a creative journey.
And it has created
a set of experiences
which are selected by your
body and your personality.
That's the way, the
selecting mechanism.
That's the programming
that's gone into it.
And you keep going
through them until you
are so clear that even at
the moment of death, instead
of dying, it's just
another moment.
Nothing's special.
To go into the
white light of death
means that you're
already about 3/4
of the way turned around
while you're still alive.
The third Chinese
patriarch-- the great way
is not difficult for those
who have no preferences.
When love and hate
are both absent,
everything becomes
clear and undisguised.
But make the slightest
distinction and heaven
and earth are set
infinitely apart.